# Common Metrics WG \
Agenda and Meeting Minutes

Minutes and Agenda: [https://bit.ly/2ROytFz](https://bit.ly/2ROytFz) 

Connection Details: [https://zoom.us/j/4998687533 ](https://zoom.us/j/4998687533)

Repository: [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common)

Every other Thursday at 10:00am US Central Time / 3:00pm UTC / 5:00pm Central Europe Time

[Metrics Tracking Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255)


# December 9, 2021

Attendees:



* Elizabeth Barron
* Matt Germonprez -- who is super excited! 
* Sean Goggins 

Agenda:



* Review PRs & Open Issues
    * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/156](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/156) 
    * Done!
* Review [Metrics Tracking Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255)
* Occasional and Consistent Contributors (was Episodic Contributors)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc) 
    * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/119](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/119) 
* Older Metrics review: 
    * [https://chaoss.community/release-history/](https://chaoss.community/release-history/) : Release Notes show Common released “Organizational Diversity” in August, 2019. That seems like our “first metric to review”.
* Discuss which metrics to work on next including Time waiting for a Submitter Action, Time waiting for a Reviewer Action, and core / peripheral contributors


# November 11, 2021

Attendees:



*  
*  Sean Goggins 
*  Vinod Ahuja - 
*  Matt Germonprez - Windy and cold 
* Regina Nkemchor Adejo - Cold 
*  Beth Hancock - Brownie meeting one. Sunny and clear.
*  

Agenda / Notes:



* May need to keep things to 25 minutes. 
* Issue for tracking metrics
    * We should likely follow an ‘age’ approach of some sort. 
    * Let’s just use the release notes to look up the oldest 
    * [https://chaoss.community/release-history/](https://chaoss.community/release-history/) : Release Notes show Common released “Organizational Diversity” in August, 2019. That seems like our “first metric to review”.
* Occasional and Consistent Contributors (was Episodic Contributors)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc) 
    * AI: Matt to reach out to the software teams to see how they’ve defined this within the software. In particular, I think maybe GrimoireLab / Cauldron might have this defined.
    * AI: Matt G. and Regina: Work on the metric to address the comments and the overall narrative. 


# October 28, 2021

Attendees:



*  Vinod Ahuja
*  Regina Nkemchor Adejo - Relaxing
*  Matt Germonprez - Off to Napa next week. 
*  Elizabeth Barron - Not going to Napa but will be drinking wine anyway
*  Dawn Foster - Also, off to Napa next week!
* Beth Hancock - Tired

Agenda / Notes:



* Facilitator for next meeting
    * Matt will do this.
* Action Items Comment
    * Assign 2 people to action items to give newer people an opportunity to work on a task with a more experienced person. 
* Review Issues / Open PRs in [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common)
* Review existing released metrics:
    * AI: Matt to create the issue to track this.
* Occasional and Consistent Contributors (was Episodic Contributors)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc) 
    * AI: Matt to reach out to the software teams to see how they’ve defined this within the software. In particular, I think maybe GrimoireLab / Cauldron might have this defined.
    * AI: Matt G. and Regina: Work on the metric to address the comments and the overall narrative. 
* Review [Metrics Tracking Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) and status on WIP metrics
* Discuss which metrics to work on next including Time waiting for a Submitter Action, Time waiting for a Reviewer Action, and core / peripheral contributors


# October 14, 2021

Attendees:



*   Matt Germonprez - Getting rid of a really old printer. Already found a new home. 
*   Regina Nkemchor Adejo - working on moving to a new city. 
*  Vinod Ahuja - got the printer
*  Kevin Lumbard
*  Peace Ojemeh(Perrie) - doing a lot of digging into web3
* Elizabeth Barron - hi!! I have coffee! 
* Silona Bonewald - My other meeting was canceled at the last minute so I could make it!

Agenda:



* Final push for metrics release 
    * Open Issues / PRs 
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet and status on WIP metrics
* Discuss which metrics to work on next including Episodic contributors, Time waiting for a Submitter Action, and Time waiting for a Reviewer Action
    * Episodic Contributors has become Occasional and Consistent Contributors 
        * AI: Matt G to work on this metric a bit
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc) 
* Perhaps we should consider new metrics of
    * Core contributor 
        * Define: 80% of work
            * Issues 
            * PRs 
            * Commits 
            * Community Management 
    * Peripheral contributor 
        * Define: 20% of work
            * Issues 
            * PRs 
            * Commits 
            * Community Management 


# September 16, 2021

Attendees:



*   
*  Sean Goggins
*  Elizabeth Barron - shoving food in my face
*  Matt Germonprez - 
*  Vinod Ahuja
*  Kevin Lumbard

Agenda:



* Review comments on Common metrics that are under community eview
    * [Programming Language Distribution](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/131)
        * Two things remain. Convert the table to image and rename the file from “Language Distribution” to “Programming Language
        * AI: Vinod is going to resolve these two issues
            * Naming 
            * Images/Tables
        * DONE!
    * [Collaboration Platform Activity](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/132)
        * One thing remains. Image does not follow naming convention
        * Proposed name for the image
            * collaboration-platform-activity_collaboration-platforms.png
            * AI: update name of image 
                * Kevin will do this! Thanks Kevin. 
                * We are going to hold off on this change because this is something that is going to need to be done across all metrics. 
        * DONE!
    * [Technical Fork (re-opened)](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/94)
        * Contributors are not mentioned as it is an update of old released metric
        * Yes, we should resolve this and include the Contributors section. This could be pulled from the Clones metric as they were worked on together. 
            * AI: Vinod will include the Contributors section to this metric. Thanks!
        * DONE!
    * [Clones](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/128)
        * DONE!
    * [Bot Activity](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/127)
        * Image does not follow the naming convention and has HTML code
        * This needs to be updated
            * &lt;img width="1443" alt="Screen Shot 2021-08-19 at 11 19 08 AM" src="[https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/656208/130105428-f9a0cc9e-dc7a-43e3-a654-25261cb4cae8.png](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/656208/130105428-f9a0cc9e-dc7a-43e3-a654-25261cb4cae8.png)"> NO
            * New image needs to be included into the images folder and properly linked in the markdown page. 
                * bot-activity_bot-activity-in-kubernetes.png
            * AI: Kevin will do this too! Thanks. This item will be deferred when we make changes to all image naming in all metrics. 
        * DONE!
    * [Event Locations](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/103)
        * DONE!
    * This process has brought up the point if our image naming conventions are really the best. The discussion is around 
        * name-of-metic_name-of-image
        * Vs. 
        * name-of-metic/name-of-image
* Update Master → Main 
    * Sean is working on this in each working group. 
    * AI: Sean will do this for us!! Yeah!
        * One side effect with publishing on the website
        * Ping Kevin on the change 
        * Make the change on Friday, Sept. 17 (along with Risk WG)
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet and status on WIP metrics
* Discuss which metrics to work on next including Episodic contributors, Time waiting for a Submitter Action, and Time waiting for a Reviewer Action
    * Episodic Contributors has become Occasional and Consistent Contributors 
        * AI: Matt G to work on this metric a bit
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z1f1sL4169GlU5Dz2bhBiqPHrIsxMmyC6Rpj9UY-PW4/edit#heading=h.5mabirss6xc) 
* Perhaps we should consider new metrics of
    * Core contributor 
        * Define: 80% of work
            * Issues 
            * PRs 
            * Commits 
            * Community Management 
    * Peripheral contributor 
        * Define: 20% of work
            * Issues 
            * PRs 
            * Commits 
            * Community Management 
* Review open issues and PRs


# September 2, 2021

Attendees:



*  Dawn Foster - so much work I need to do before vacation.
*  Elizabeth Barron - it’s a gorgeous day today, finally the humidity has left
*  Vinod Ahuja -  
*  
*  
*  Matt Germonprez - Airplane 

Agenda:



* Need facilitator for next meeting
    * Matt G.
* Metrics Freeze - any comments / next steps
    * AI: Matt to talk to Kevin about the process for updating based on comments - do it as we go and push to the website? Or wait until we have more feedback?
    * AI: Matt to summarize feedback so far on [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/132](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/132) in an issue comment for now.
    * AI: Vinod to go through the issue checklists and tick the completed items or add a checklist if we’re missing it in an issue for the 5 metrics in the candidate release.
        * Reviewed by Vinod
            * [Programming Language Distribution](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/131)
                * Two things are remaining. Convert the table to image and rename the file from “Language Distribution” to “Programming Language
            * [Collaboration Platform Activity](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/132)
                * One thing remains. Image does not follow naming convention
            * [Technical Fork (re-opened)](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/94)
                * Contributors are not mentioned as it is an update of old released metric
            * [Clones](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/128)
                * Done
            * [Bot Activity](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/127)
                * Image does not follow the naming convention and has HTML code
            * [Event Locations](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/103)
                * Done
        * 
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet and status on WIP metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255)  
        * Email sent to Daniel
* Discuss which metrics to work on next
    * Next up, let’s work on Episodic contributors, Time waiting for a Submitter Action and Time waiting for a Reviewer Action
* Review issues and PRs
    * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common) 


# August 19, 2021

Attendees:



*  Matt Germonprez - School starts today! University starts Monday. 
*  Vinod Ahuja - Feeling good 
*  Elizabeth Barron - School starts tomorrow and I feel so disjointed!
*  Kevin Lumbard
*  Dawn Foster - sleepy
*  Sean Goggins - Just learned how to change the primary branch published on readthedocs.io 

Agenda:



* Metrics Freeze Sept 1.
    * AI: Need to review & merge Event location and Bots before the freeze.
* Space: Event Location [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * This one is ready to move forward.
    * AI: Kevin to PR.
* Clones metric
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit) 
    * AI: Vinod to add release review disclaimer before we merge this and update issue. Translation issue.
    * AI: Vinod to make similar language edits to the technical fork metric after we agree on this metric. (Done)
        * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/137](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/137)
        * 
    * AI: Vinod to create the PR. (Done)
        * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/136](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/136)
    * AI: Matt has created an Issue in the Translations repo (Done)
        * [https://github.com/chaoss/translations/issues/66](https://github.com/chaoss/translations/issues/66) 
* Bot 
    * Try to close this out today
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit) 
    * AI: MAtt to PR this. We should ask the GrimoireLab team if they have a good visualization that they can provide. Add translation issue. Issue for metrics release.
* Make sure we have translation issues for all our metrics to be released.
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet and status on WIP metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255)  
    * AI: Matt G. to fix our drop downs to add “community review” as an option. Done
    * AI: and fix it for event location. Done
* Revisit issues and PRs 
    * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common) 


# August 5, 2021

Attendees:



*  
* Kevin Lumbard 
* Dawn Foster  
*  Matt Germonprez - Just got the oil changed in my car
* Vinod Ahuja

Agenda / Notes



* Revisit issues and PRs 
    * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common) 
    * Aligned the New Metrics (Issues) with Spreadsheet
    * AI: Kevin - confirm release date and freeze timing and send an update to the ML.
    * AI: Kevin to do an example. For translations, we need to create an issue for each new metric in the translation repo linked back to the original issue from the WG. - DONE
    * AI: Matt G. to do the other 2.
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet and status on WIP metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255)  
    * AI: Matt G. to fix our drop downs to add “community review” as an option
* Collaboration Platforms
    * AI: Kevin will create respective things to put this under community review - DONE
* Clones metric
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit) 
    * AI: Vinod to make similar language edits to the technical fork metric after we agree on this metric.
    * AI: Vinod to create the PR.
* Bot 
    * Add this to the agenda for next time to close it out.
* Space: Event Location [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * This one is ready to move forward.
    * AI: Kevin to PR.


# July 22, 2021

Attendees:



*  
*  Matt Germonprez - Tomorrow is my birthday 
*  Beth Hancock - Sad about birds. 
*  Vinod Ahuja
*  Kevin Lumbard
*  Elizabeth Barron - I turn 50 this year too! Happy birthday Matt! 
* Dawn Foster - it’s a good year to turn 50! I turned 50 in April :) 

Agenda:



*  Revisit issues and PRs 
    * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common) 
    * Aligned the New Metrics (Issues) with Spreadsheet
*  Collaboration Platforms
    * Metric is initially complete 
    * AI: Kevin will create respective things to put this under community review
*  Working on the Clones metric
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit) 
    * AI Vinod to work with the provided edits -- we can discuss next time we meet. 
    * AI Vinod to make similar language edits to the technical fork metric. 
        * Also remove the API Data Collection Strategies references from technical fork 
*  
*  
*  
*  
* 


# July 8, 2021

Attendees:



*  Dawn Foster - afternoon sleepiness! 
*  Vinod Ahuja
*  Sean Goggins - Bucks Game 2, tonight at 8pm CDT! 
*  Matt Germonprez - Up at 4:30 am today. Sleepy too. 
*  Kevin Lumbard
* Beth Hancock - Sleepy three.	
* Elizabeth Barron - me too, Beth! 🥱
* Ritik Malik - sleepy with 3 others

Agenda:



* Sean to drive the next meeting.
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
    * Kevin will merge [PR #126](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/126) when the website migration is done. 
    * [PR #122](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/122) -- Merged
    * Issues 
* Discussion on WIP Metrics
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
            * AI: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
    * Space: Event location 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
            * AI: Kevin to work on this and bring it back to the meeting
    * Space: Collaboration platforms
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
            * AI: Kevin to submit a PR to put it into the review process. 
            * AI: Kevin to create an issue to reference the metric.
    * Bots
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing) 
            * AI: Matt G to work more on this to clean it up to finalize in the next meeting.
            * AI: Matt G. to create corresponding issue.
    * Language Distribution is Ready for Group Review
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit) 
            * AI: Sean to PR as a release candidate for review with the disclaimer at the top for review and the issue where people add feedback.
            * AI: Sean to create corresponding review issue.
    * Clones:
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit)
            * AI: Vinod to work on this and bring it back at the next meeting.
            * AI: Vinod to create corresponding issue.
                * Done: https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues/128



<p id="gdcalert1" ><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>>  gd2md-html alert: inline image link here (to images/image1.png). Store image on your image server and adjust path/filename/extension if necessary. </span><br>(<a href="#">Back to top</a>)(<a href="#gdcalert2">Next alert</a>)<br><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>> </span></p>


![alt_text](images/image1.png "image_tooltip")
  

<p id="gdcalert2" ><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>>  gd2md-html alert: inline image link here (to images/image2.png). Store image on your image server and adjust path/filename/extension if necessary. </span><br>(<a href="#">Back to top</a>)(<a href="#gdcalert3">Next alert</a>)<br><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>> </span></p>


![alt_text](images/image2.png "image_tooltip")




* Review Metrics Spreadsheet
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 


# June 24, 2021

Attendees:



* Sean Goggins - Not on a beach, but I am a passenger in a Subaru! 
* Dawn Foster - so many back to back meetings this afternoon!📅📅
* Elizabeth Barron - me too, Dawn! 💻
* Vinod Ahuja -  
* Matt Germonprez - I hate bunnies with all my heart. 
*  - Can’t think of anything clever today
* Yash Prakash 
* Kevin Lumbard 

Agenda:



* Focus Area Reevaluation
    * AI Matt G: Add the spreadsheet context to the github repo
        * I.E. “What” -> “What: Contribution”
    * New focus areas
        * People 
        * Contribution 
        * Time 
        * Place 
        * Need to update all the things! Including folders. 
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Rewrite focus area goals
    * Contribution - Identify what contributions are made (e.g., code commit, wiki edit, documentation).
    * Time - Identify when contributions are made (e.g., time to respond).
    * Place - Identify where contributions occur in terms of physical and virtual places (e.g., GitHub, Chat Channel, Forum, conferences).
    * People - Identify organizations and individuals who make contributions (e.g. contribution type, demographics).
    * AI Matt G (again): Put these in the repo
    * AI Kevin is making an issue to track these changes
* Focus Area Goals 
    * Right now the goals are not consistent across all of the areas. 
* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Discussion on WIP Metrics
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
            * AI: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
    * Space: Event location 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * Space: Collaboration platforms
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
            * AI: Kevin to submit a PR to put it into the review process. 
    * Bots
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing) 
            * AI: Matt G to work more on this.
    * Language Distribution is Ready for Group Review
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit) 
            * AI: Sean to PR as a release candidate for review with the disclaimer at the top for review and the issue where people add feedback.
    * Clones:
        * AI: Vinod to create an issue and doc to get this started.
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19dUCadvCciouHq6XHcnzqGjuVC3hoPGf41WqlbEFJyM/edit)


# June 10, 2021

Attendees:



*  
* Elizabeth Barron - Hi! 
* Dawn Foster - warm here in the UK
* Vinod Ahuja - Need to drop off early at 10:30 for  another meeting
* Andrea Gallo - very sunny and 30 degrees C here 
* Kevin Lumbard
* Beth Hancock - A very full day of meetings, but beach vacation next week!

Agenda:



* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Focus Area Reevaluation
    * AI: Dawn to add this to the agenda next meeting.
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Discussion on WIP Metrics
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
            * AI last meeting: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
    * Space: Event location 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * Space: Collaboration platforms
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
            * AI: Kevin to submit a PR to put it into the review process. 
    * Bots
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing) 
            * AI: Matt G to work more on this.
    * Language Distribution is Ready for Group Review
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit) 
            * AI: Sean to PR as a release candidate for review with the disclaimer at the top for review and the issue where people add feedback.
                * This metric is a release candidate. To comment on this metric please see Issue #xx. Following a comment period, this metric will be included in the next regular release.
    * Clones:
        * Vinod to create issue and doc to get this started.


# May 27, 2021

Attendees:



*  Dawn Foster - looking forward to a 4 day weekend starting in a few hours!🎉
*  Sean Goggins - Middle School Graduation Day AND chance of tornados (small)
*  Matt Germonprez -- Cool winds from the West 
*  Elizabeth Barron - the kiddo is done with his Junior Year, he’s a senior now! 
*  Kevin Lumbard
*  Yash Prakash
* Beth Hancock - Sad to be Late; Meeting ran long. It’s my kiddo’s last day of first grade!

Agenda:



* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
    * README to follow new template: [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/121](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/pull/121) 
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Discussion on WIP Metrics
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
            * AI last meeting: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
    * Space: Event location 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * Space: Collaboration platforms
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
            * AI: Daniel will do a review of this metric. 
            * It appears that it is getting close to being done and just needs a final push. 
    * Bots
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing) 
            * AI: Matt G to work more on this.
    * Language Distribution is Ready for Group Review
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lQLyDQh8goDnXzLQyVqj_ZBjrbbv42lVlIIc4Y7zjs4/edit) 
            * AI: Sean to PR as a release candidate for review with the disclaimer at the top for review and the issue where people add feedback.
                * This metric is a release candidate. To comment on this metric please see Issue #313. Following a comment period, this metric will be included in the next regular release.
* Focus Area Reevaluation
    * AI: Dawn to add to agenda - Need to do this next meeting 


# May 13, 2021

Attendees:



*  
* Dawn Foster - frantically trying to finish things before my 4 day weekend 🎉
* Ritik Malik - working on my 1st undergrad thesis :D 
* Matt Germonprez - My garden box broke
* Vinod Ahuja - Eid Mubarak to all Muslim friends 
* Elizabeth Barron - my kids are moving this weekend and taking my grandchild with them noooo
* Yash Prakash - just had an amazing dinner!
* Kevin Lumbard
* Beth Hancock - wrong meeting brain try again - Planting veggies in pots this weekend!
* Daniel Izquierdo
* Sean Goggins - getting ready for 12 Augur developers this summer. Also, thinking we should invite Elon Musk to join the board.

Agenda:



* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
    * Adding Drive Through / Episodic contributor to next weeks agenda
    * AI: Yash to send it out to the mailing list to let people know that we have this new template and ask WGs to talk about it in their meeting to apply it.
    * AI: Yash and Sean to work on README with the new template
* PR: Standard Structure for README.md in each WG repo
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pfipIiaemdtdiDQpvY7jOKhKzsv_3lXLLsbJiByl5GU/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pfipIiaemdtdiDQpvY7jOKhKzsv_3lXLLsbJiByl5GU/edit?usp=sharing)
    * Updating/Standardizing READMEs in the focus areas
        * AI: Kevin will review and merge is approved. 
    * Also, this template has been added to the governance repository: 
        * [https://github.com/chaoss/governance/tree/master/templates](https://github.com/chaoss/governance/tree/master/templates) 
        * AI: Yash and Sean will take a look at how the template can best capture the WG-specific information 
    * As there is a general structure for the README that is going to be used across all WG, Kevin recommends that an email is sent to the community to open this up for community comment. Also ask all WG to include this in their weekly agendas. 
        * This would also include the contributing and CoC templates 
* Issue: New Metric on Drive-through Contributions 
    * Inclusive Naming Language Spreadsheet: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pPM9Duh83p9pMMFE-wjlHDVh_-x3jCT016dmUIjSkLo/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pPM9Duh83p9pMMFE-wjlHDVh_-x3jCT016dmUIjSkLo/edit#gid=0) 
    * Discuss this in the next meeting so that Justin or Georg can comment more directly on the Issue
* Review action items from previous meetings
    * They all seem to be moving forward well!
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
            * AI last meeting: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
    * Space: Event location 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
            * This is a question as to where events are located 
                * This could be useful in other working groups such as: 
                    * DEI: Global Inclusion
                    * Evolution: Project getting bigger as represented by global events
    * Space: Collaboration platforms
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
            * AI: Daniel will do a review of this metric. 
            * It appears that it is getting close to being done and just needs a final push. 
    * Bot Metrics (Volume)
        * Bot Activity 
            * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVx78S6hdll1gi7267VYWGz2ZyFDNOj7SBfeBxSsDqo/edit?usp=sharing) 
            * AI: Matt G to work more on this.


# April 29, 2021

Attendees:



*  Dawn Foster
*  Vinod Ahuja
*  Ritik Malik - finally back at home, safe and sound
* Elizabeth Barron - finally got to take some nature photos this week
*  Sean Goggins - ONE more week of semester after this!
* Andrea Gallo - one of those days with plenty of back-to-back calls!
* Kevin Lumbard
* Yash Prakash
* Beth Hancock - Learning day!
* Matt Germonprez - Making Banana Bread

Agenda: 



* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
    * AI: Yash 
        * Circulate to Risk 
        * Convert Google doc to markdown file
        * Make Templates folder in Governance repo
        * Put converted file into templates folder
        * Chairs for Common WG will be Dawn Foster & Matt Germonprez
        * Issue PRs to each WG based on this template 
        * Additionally include the following templates in the Templates folder
            * Contributing.md
            * CodeofConduct.md
* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review Metrics Spreadsheet
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
            * AI last meeting: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
    * Space: Event location 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * Space: Collaboration platforms
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
    * Bot Metrics


# April 15, 2021

Attendees:



* Dawn Foster - feeling sleepy 😴
* Matt Germonprez - I learned that South Bend, IN is closer than the western edge of NE
* Ritik Malik - no volleyball :(
* Vinod Ahuja -  
* Georg Link - 🥳
* Kevin Lumbard
* Elizabeth Barron - Very glad that taxes are not due today!
* Andrea Gallo
* Yash Prakash - :D 

Agenda: 



* Bot activity as a common metric? 
    * Volume of bot activity vs. Human activity  
    * Things like time to first response could be really skewed  
    * Perhaps bot activity is something that we could consider in Common (coming from the AP call) 
    * Possible Metrics
        * Volume of Bot Activity 
        * 
        * Ratio of Human to Bot Activity
            * Ratio of Bot to other bot activity
        * Bot as a Filter for other Metrics (not independent metric)
            * AI: Georg to start the process to PR this in as a filter on other metrics.
        * Bot activity triggered by Human commands (challenge: how to identify this?)
        * AI: Matt - create issues and docs for these metrics
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
    * Common Glossary for all CHAOSS?
        * We have a handbook page: [https://handbook.chaoss.community/community-handbook/about/terminology](https://handbook.chaoss.community/community-handbook/about/terminology)
        * Maybe define the different terms as Metrics themselves?
* Common User Story
    * Beginning: I want to understand the impact that events have on increased traffic to my project. 
    * Middle: 
        * Burstiness
        * Issues New
        * Issues Closed
        * Change Requests
        * New Contributors 
    * End: This story helps me get a quick view of the changes in project activities following an event. I may want to guide people to how to contribute a bit more explicitly if I’m not seeing any change. 
* Progress on Current Metrics:
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
            * AI last meeting: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
    * Space: Event location 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * Space: Collaboration platforms
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 


# April 1, 2021

Attendees:



* Matt Germonprez - getting some sod for the backyard today & April Fools Day! 
* Georg Link - Learned awesome ghost jokes. 
* Sean P. Goggins - Would like to thank the Nobel Committee for my Nobel Prize in Economics
* Beth Hancock - Giggly about ghost jokes. 
* Elizabeth Barron - it’s snowing today, which is not a very funny joke
* Kevin Lumbard

Agenda: 



* Facilitator for the next meeting: Sean Goggins 
* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
        * AI: Sean will work to smooth out the metric and bring it back to the group and talk through it. 
* Space: Event location 
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
* Space: Collaboration platforms
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 


# March 18, 2021

Attendees:



* Beth Hancock - So many meetings day
* Dawn Foster 
* Seunfunmi Adegoke - really chilly today 
*  Matt Germonprez - Trees are starting to bud out
* Kevin Lumbard
* Vinod Ahuja
* Andrea Gallo - trees started blooming but very chilly since last Monday
* Elizabeth Barron - ready to be outside but it’s just dark and rainy today, boooo

Agenda / notes:



* Facilitator for April 1 meeting
    * Matt G. volunteered.
* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
    * AI: Kevin L. to add Time to Merge as a filter for the released Time to Close metric: [https://chaoss.community/metric-time-to-close/](https://chaoss.community/metric-time-to-close/) 
* Space: Collaboration platforms
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
    * AI: Matt to clean up for discussion in the next meeting.
* Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
* Space: Event location 
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 


# March 4, 2021

Attendees (add anything you like: preferred pronouns, something on your desk, how you’re feeling, something interesting about you, a smiley: 



*  Daniel Izquierdo - manatee 
*  Matt Germonprez - So sunny, so warm. - bat
*  Kevin Lumbard - Beaver
*  

Agenda:



* Review action items from previous meetings
    * [https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common/issues) 
    * Fork distances 
    * Hostile Forks 
    * Contribute back Fork 
    * These filters will stay but could lead to other metrics in other working groups: 
        * Ratio of contributing fork to total forks (A contributing fork is a fork that has opened a change request against the original repository.)
        * Ratio of non-contributing fork to total forks (A non-contributing fork is a fork that has never opened a change request against the original repository.)
    * Another metric that has come out of this CLONE and DOWNLOADS 
        * These could refer to each other in the future 
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Review comments from metrics review period
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Space: Collaboration platforms
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
* Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
* Space: Event location 
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 


# February 18, 2021

Attendees (add anything you like: preferred pronouns, something on your desk, how you’re feeling, something interesting about you, a smiley: 



* Dawn Foster - Windy here!
* Steven Kolawole (he/him) - Hi
* Kevin Lumbard
* Elizabeth Barron - Hi! 
* Sean Goggins - New HVAC is on the way! (He/They/Them)
* Georg Link (he/him) - 😎
* Dhruv Sachdev - 
* Beth Hancock (she/her) - It’s magic!  I have power and water and internet!

Agenda & Minutes:



* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Review comments from metrics review period
* Archiving minutes
    * CHAOSS is now the owner of this document.
    * We’re going to start archiving them once per year.
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Time Waiting for a Submitter Action
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.qu85oi4dufp2)
* Space: Event location 
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
* Space: Collaboration platforms
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 


# February 4, 2021

Attendees:



* Matt Germonprez - Sad for impending arctic weather :(
* Dawn Foster - little umbrellas make drinks better!
* Sean Goggins - Zoom updates!
* Elizabeth Barron - my kid turns 17 today, what!!
* Daniel Izquierdo - hi there!
* Kevin Lumbard
* Georg Link

Video:

Agenda:



* Review action items from previous meetings
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
* Released Metrics for this cycle (under review)
    * [https://chaoss.community/metrics/#user-content-focus-area---what](https://chaoss.community/metrics/#user-content-focus-area---what) 
* What should we work on next?
    * Time Waiting for a Submitter Action - **AI: Daniel to work on language**
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit?usp=sharing)
    * Space: Event location - **AI: Matt G. to template it out.**
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vSJFXA_YhqR0LjixTx4Y0Y9MUB1zXiF0Owh6-1XrvVM/edit) 
    * Space: Collaboration platforms - **AI: Kevin**
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T34FMq2Xs34d4BaoyWp0m8QC3KLWHxIx3WZAA4qjFY8/edit) 
        * Possible example: CHAOSS Dashboard - [https://chaoss.biterg.io/app/kibana#/dashboard/ab68fe20-17f2-11e9-872f-e17019e68d6d](https://chaoss.biterg.io/app/kibana#/dashboard/ab68fe20-17f2-11e9-872f-e17019e68d6d) 


# January 21, 2021

Attendees:



*  
*  Matt Germonprez - Stormy is 1 year old -- border collie doggo 
*  Vinod Ahuja - Reading and reading lot of articles
* Elizabeth Barron - feeling good! 
* Beth Hancock - a little sad. I lost my last great aunt. 
* Kevin Lumbard

Agenda:



* Review action items from previous meetings
    * [Time between review cycles](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-86OoosdSKSthe1_K5WrlECy3j2AqdKwJEK2doF3YBU/edit#) (name changed to Review cycle Duration within change request)
        * **AI: Matt G will submit this as a metric for release. Done**
        * **Merged and corresponding issue closed**
        * **All the things!! **
* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Out of nowhere! 
    * We completed Burstiness. 
        * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cIt6aJdWppIAW7LvLHMIW7oOLZtkYnZPjSaYhX_NBHI/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cIt6aJdWppIAW7LvLHMIW7oOLZtkYnZPjSaYhX_NBHI/edit#) 
    * Good job! 
* Process by which we identify how Common Metrics are being used in other working groups. 
* Review [Time Waiting for a Submitter Action](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11IHoWZYO4aWg638J15hOX7u8hAfRvi6nhF7dTzsy0fo/edit#heading=h.698id2deqdz4)
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 


# January 7, 2021

Attendees:



*  
*  Matt Germonprez - Feeling good, I think. 
*  Vinod Ahuja
* Elizabeth Barron
*  Dawn Foster - It’s been a week! 🔥
* Sean Goggins - today is Thursday?
* Nicole Huesman - it’s been a week, whew! looking forward to being a fly on the wall & contributing where I can

Agenda:



* Review of open Issues and PRs ([https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common))
* Process by which we identify how Common Metrics are being used in other working groups. 
* Progress on Current Metrics
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAGzUiZ9jdORKCnoDQJkOU8tQsZDCZVjcWqXYOSAFmE/edit#gid=276406255) 
    * [Time between review cycles](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-86OoosdSKSthe1_K5WrlECy3j2AqdKwJEK2doF3YBU/edit#) (name changed to Review cycle Duration within change request)
        * AI: Matt G will submit this as a metric for release. 
    * New proposed metric: Number of review cycles within change request 


# 2020 and before minutes

[https://docs.google.com/document/d/19i4L63KViuLj7D4wJF4NRYaRSN0YdOI_1uG_dZ0hIwU/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19i4L63KViuLj7D4wJF4NRYaRSN0YdOI_1uG_dZ0hIwU/edit#)
